## TODO
1. read clip as when projecting text and visual dataset on a same feature space, this is required.
2. find related works after meeting

## Done
1. finished reading Stream

## Doing
1. Going through the codes





--------------------------------

### Stream: A Generalized Continual Learning Benchmark and Baseline
1. a multi-modal benchmark is Stream , and it has the ability to construct a sequence of tasks with varying learning-gaps from Vision and Text datasets
2. $\alpha$Metasup is a baseline model for novelty detection. uses 14 a ‘dummy’ Stream to train a transformer model to identify novel task transitions
3. The trained transformer is then used as an auxiliary novelty detector to 16 a learner in the benchmark Stream. We show how αMetaSup can augment existing CL methods that use rehearsal memory and improve their performance
4. domain gap can define the difficulty of the stream of the task
5. we need to identify the task boundary as When the difference between tasks is non-identifiable, false negatives can gradually lead to forgetting
6. Identifying a novel task is composed of two problems, first quantifying (e.g. via a statistical metric) and then classifying (e.g. by a classification threshold) novelty.
7. use transformations to create a sequence of tasks with limited dataset
8. transformation provides a  method to control the learning gap between tasks without changing the difficulty of the dataset.
9. Permutation Transformations re-order the feature space but are not applicable to data for which there are interdependencies among features.
10. permute across embedded dimensions of pre-trained features that allow us to generate novel tasks of the same difficulty
11. Task Sequence can be defined as a list of transformations where Ti∈ {Tperm, Trot} is applied on a 196 list of datasets Dbase. Tiis uniquely defined by the random seed, Stream is able to produce infinitely 197 long task sequences from a limited set of Dbaseby varying the random seeds.
12. the semantic similarity of classes mapped to the same concept 206 does not have an impact on the performance
13. 