# July 14th Report

### Meeting:

ID # 976 9414 6690
Passcode: 833610


Having meetin today, here is a gist of what we are going to report for the meeting.

1. This week what I did: Test on Bilateral Grid method, test on our original method.
2. Bilateral Grid method provides a huge challenge: First it didn't release any official code, second it didn't mention the dataset they trained on. So when I use the implementation from others , I don't have a training set to train on. So I went to find other articles that cited that paper to see how they implement the bilateral grid for comparision but I couldn't find the code or the dataset for the bilateral grid. What they did was just mention it in the related works part. Some of the final result is uploaded into the WACV shared driver.
3. Testing on our original method, our orginal method's fps and quality is comparable to the WCT2 on 512*512 resolution. But our orginal method demonstrates a little fuzzy and noise on the edge of objects. But it's consistency on videos is great. Rong came up with a new structre with higher speed and better quality.



Our coming target:
1. to think of how to deal with different resolutions and resize them into a low resolution representation and perform changes there. We need to deal with the upsample part. 
2. Now both our method requires to set the ratio of content to style manually .That can be not efficient , requring multiple tests of different ratio, and producing suboptimal output. Although our method can be fast, we still want to give the user a default ratio setting that can produce great outcome.
3. during testing both our methods, we set the epoch of transfering the style to a fixed value. Sometimes the epochs needed for style transfer can be done are less than the pre-determined value so we want to also introducing an early-stop feature for our method to further increase the speed.