## Learning ambidextrous robot grasping policies
1. For robots with more than two grippers for Universal picking
2. Present Dex-Net 4.0
3. 2 normal approaches: database and use machine learning to predict the success of candidate grasp 
4. explored a hybrid method. use model from geometry and mechanics to generate synthetic training datasets. may lead to problems cased by sim-to-real.
5. use domain randomization. encourages policies to learn grasps that are robust to imprecision in sensing, control, and physics.
6. plans grasps based on depth images, which can be simulated accurately using ray tracing (18, 19, 23) and are invariant to object color
7. The hybrid approach has been used to learn reliable UP policies on a physical robot with a single gripper (25–28). However, different grasp modalities are needed to reliably handle a wide range of objects in practice.
8. propose the Dexterity Network (Dex-Net) 4.0 dataset generation model, extending the gripper-specific models of Dex-Net 2.0 (19) and Dex-Net 3.0
9. Metrics:evaluates all grasps with a common metric: expected wrench resistance, or the ability to resist task-specific forces and torques, such as gravity, under random perturbations.
10. implement the model for a parallel-jaw gripper and a vacuumbased suction cup gripper and generate the Dex-Net 4.0 training dataset containing more than 5 million grasps associated with synthetic point clouds and grasp metrics computed from 1664 unique 3D objects in simulated heaps.
11. train separate Grasp Quality Convolutional Neural Networks (GQ-CNNs) for each gripper and combine them to plan grasps for objects in a given point cloud.
12. key take away: use synthetic dataset to learn GQ-CNN which can predict the success of a grasp given depth image. Then learn a policy that can generate a sequence that maximize the accmulated reward.


## DexGraspNet: A Large-Scale Robotic Dexterous Grasp Dataset for General Objects Based on Simulation
1. Robotic dexterous grasping is the first step to enable human-like dexterous object manipulation and thus a crucial robotic technology.dexterous grasping is much more under-explored than object grasping with parallel grippers, partially due to the lack of a large-scale dataset. So they synthesized the dataset of grasping.